SEO -> Search Engine Optimization

What is SE works?

It works in 5 ways

Crawling:- In this stage it crawl our full websites like pages, content and links whatever 
and then capture and send it to data server. Also it matches our keywords and pages and 
send that details to data server.

Indexing:- After crawling, SE allocates a position to our website based on the crawling process.

Processing:- Once it received the user query , if it is related to our keywords then it shows 
our website to the users.

Calculating relavancy&Retrieving results:- It checks the websites through keywords which is mostly 
related to user query and allocate the position & display our website based on that relavancy.


What we do?

We should develope our website as per SE rules and structure. 
Then only they consider our website as user friendly and called as organic website.

Portion we should concentrate:-

Page structure / Content / Links

Rules:-

Do's:-
1.Keyword density max 1% or 2% in 100 words.
2.Content should be high quality. means it is mostly related to that keyword.
3.Website should be mobile friendly too.
4.it checks our website load, speed everything. So we have to maintain that too.
5.Title- consits of 60-70 char only & core keyword must include in title.
6.Description:- upto 120 char only . So that our description is able to read 
both mobile view and desktop view 
7.Use alt tag in all our website images and it is mandatory. based on that message also se 
display our website to the user.
8.Canonical tag ->Used to avoid duplicate content issue. Used inside header tag.[condition:-
we should use one cananical tag per page]
9.alternate tag ->Used to avoid version duplication issue. Used inside header tag.
10.Header tag:-SEO understand our website nature through this header tag only.So if we create our
header tags in proper schema then SE schema markup is applicable to our website.Mostly we have to
create short headers only.
11.Robots tag optimization:- one of the meta tag comes under head section. 
Based on this tag instruction only SE indexing our web pages. Index / Noindex / follow / nofollow
12.Language tag:-we have to mention our website lang using this hreflang inside link tag with country 
code.
13.Links optimization:-content / img / nav/ footer.
14.URL optimization:- use lowercase and hypens only. max 50-60 words. must static & redeable
and we add our keyword to our url it is extra benefit
15.Must fix favicon for our website to identify our website in multi tabs.
16.Include google analytics.

Dont's:-

1.Content should not be repeated and meaningless.
2.Content should not be duplicate which is not related to keyword / Keywords should not 
stuffed in the content. for eg[in 100 words 10 to 15 words is our keywords means Seo 
consider it as spam. for that reason our domain spam score will automatically incr. So that it cause 
decr in ranking rate in se.
3.Unwanted links not placed in our website anchor tags.
4.Dont use our keywords in unwanted places.
5.Description content should not be repeated in all pages.
6.Don't come duplicate descriptions.
7.Don't use double quotes between the description.
8.Don't use more than 1 h1 tag in one page
9.Don't use our keywords multiple times in single header tag
10.Don't use header tag as a hiden text. if we do SE put our complete domain in block list
11.Don't use header tag as a link.
12.Don't use same header tag in all pages.
13.Don't create so many links in a single page.
14.Links didn't redirect to non-related webpages or sites.
if SE identify that point no 13 & 14 it will put our website as a block list
15.Don't use underscore in URL / Avoid keyword repetation in url / Avoid dates/ Avoid stop words 
[as,a,the, and, an, of, or, but ] / Avoid special characters


How to set keywords:-

Split keywords into category:-

1.Product
2.Competitor keywords
3.branded
4.geo targeted keywords(city, state or country)

Split keywords into its size:-
1.Short tail / Mid tail / Long Tail

Create Keyword:-

We can choose one of the below,

1.Information intent:-Question based [how, what,why,where]
2.Navigational intent:- Brand / product or service name
3.Transactional intent:- buy / coupon/ order/ cost
4.commercial intent:- best / top / review

Seed keywords:-

which keywords are mostly searched by the users in google search it is called as seed keywords.
and it is placed as google search and people also ask.

Check our keyword strength:-

Some free open source tools Such as google keyword planner , keywordtool.io etc



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.Budibase
2.NocoBase
3.Baserow
4.Convertigo









 